Add blog for instruduce continuous profiling feature (#614)
apache/skywalking-website: content/blog/2023-06-25-intruducing-continuous-profiling-skywalking-with-ebpf/index.md

---

> title: "Activating Performance Analysis Tools with SkyWalking and eBPF under Threshold Conditions -- Continuous Profiling"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Activating Automatical Performance Analysis -- Continuous Profiling"
```

date: 2023-06-25
author: "Han Liu"

> description: "Introduce and demonstrate how SkyWalking and eBPF implement process monitoring with low energy consumption. It will also detail how, when certain conditions are met, these tools initiate more complex performance tasks to monitor programs."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Introduce and demonstrate how SkyWalking implements eBPF-based process monitoring with few manual engagements. The profiling could be automatically activated driven by the preset conditions."
```

tags:
- eBPF
- Profiling
- Tracing
---

# Background

In previous articles, We have discussed how to use SkyWalking and eBPF for performance problem detection within [processes](/blog/2022-07-05-pinpoint-service-mesh-critical-performance-impact-by-using-ebpf) and [networks](blog/diagnose-service-mesh-network-performance-with-ebpf). 
However, there are still two outstanding issues:

> 1. **Task initiation time**: It's often challenging to quickly determine which processes require performance monitoring when problems occur. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **The timing of the task initiation**: It's always challenging to address the processes that require performance monitoring when problems occur. 
```

> Typically, manual intervention is required to identify processes and the types of performance analysis necessary. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Typically, manual engagement is required to identify processes and the types of performance analysis necessary. 
```

> We need a faster way to detect which processes require performance analysis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The root cause locating and the time of crash recovery conflict with each other from time to time. In the real case, rebooting would be the first choice of recovery, meanwhile, it destroys the site of crashing.
```

2. **Resource consumption of tasks**: When tasks are initiated, they may consume more system resources to analyze more extensive performance issues. 

> We need a method to manage resource consumption and understand which processes necessitate performance analysis.

Reviewer: This seems not a reason for continuous profiling. We are costing the same resources, or even more?

Do you want to say, continuous profiling would allow the profiling activated by default from the more experienced and senior SRE and Operation engineer?

Author: My point is, if performance tasks are continuously started for a particular process by default, it might consume a significant amount of system resources, affecting overall system performance. Continuous analysis can help mitigate this resource consumption

Reviewer: OK, then, I think there are 3 points 
1. Current one.
2. The difficulties to determine the profiling scope. Wider profiling causes more resources than it should. (your point 2).
3. Engineer capabilities. On-call is usually covered by the whole team, which have junior and senior engineers, even senior engineers have their understanding limitation of the complex distributed system, it is nearly impossible to understand the whole system by a single one person.

Author: updated, please re-check.

> In this article, we will delve into how we tackle these issues through continuous profiling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Continuous Profiling** is a new created mechanism to resolve the above issues.
```

# Mechanism

> If profiling tasks consume a significant amount of system resources, can we find alternative ways to monitor processes that use fewer system resources? The answer is yes. 
> Currently, SkyWalking establishes policy rules for specified target services, which are then monitored by the eBPF Agent in a low-energy manner. 
> When a policy match occurs, a profiling task is automatically triggered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As profiling tasks consume a significant amount of system resources, can we find alternative ways to monitor processes that use fewer system resources? The answer is yes. 
Currently, SkyWalking supports establishing policy rules for specific services to be monitored by the eBPF Agent in a low-energy manner, and run profiling when necessary automatically.
```

| Process CPU | Percentage | The CPU usage of the process as a percentage. |
| Process Thread Count | Count | The number of threads in the process. |
| HTTP Error Rate | Percentage | The percentage of HTTP requests that result in error responses (e.g., 4xx or 5xx status codes). |
| HTTP Avg Response Time | Millisecond | The average response time for HTTP requests. |

#### Network related monitoring

Monitoring network type metrics is not as simple as obtaining basic process information. 
It requires the initiation of eBPF programs and attaching them to the target process for observation. 
This is similar to the principles of [network profiling task we introduced in the previous article](blog/diagnose-service-mesh-network-performance-with-ebpf), 
except that we no longer collect the full content of the data packets. Instead, we only collect the content of messages that match specified HTTP prefixes.

By using this method, we can significantly reduce the number of times the kernel sends data to the user space, 
and the user-space program can parse the data content with less system resource usage. This ultimately helps in conserving system resources.

#### Metrics collector

> When the eBPF Agent is monitoring a target process, it would report the collected data to the SkyWalking backend in the form of metrics. 
> This allows users to understand real-time execution status promptly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The eBPF agent would report metrics of processes periodically as follows to indicate the process performance in time.
```

collects relevant information from the current process, and reports it to the SkyWalking backend. This allows users to know **when, why, and what** type of profiling task was triggered from the interface.

# Demo

Next, let's quickly demonstrate the continuous profiling feature, so you can understand more specifically what it accomplishes.

## Deploy SkyWalking Showcase

SkyWalking Showcase contains a complete set of example services and can be monitored using SkyWalking. 
For more information, please check the [official documentation](https://skywalking.apache.org/docs/skywalking-showcase/next/readme/).

In this demo, we only deploy service, the latest released SkyWalking OAP, and UI.

```shell
export SW_OAP_IMAGE=apache/skywalking-oap-server:9.5.0
export SW_UI_IMAGE=apache/skywalking-ui:9.5.0
export SW_ROVER_IMAGE=apache/skywalking-rover:0.5.0

export FEATURE_FLAGS=mesh-with-agent,single-node,elasticsearch,rover
make deploy.kubernetes
```

After deployment is complete, please run the following script to open SkyWalking UI: http://localhost:8080/.

```shell
kubectl port-forward svc/ui 8080:8080 --namespace default
```

## Create Continuous Profiling Policy

> Currently, we can select the specific service that we wish to monitoring by clicking the **Services** item in the **Service Mesh** panel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, continues profiling feature is set by default in the **Service Mesh** panel at the **Service** level.
```

![Continuous Profiling](./continuous-profiling.png)

> By clicking on the edit button in the above figure, we can edit the continuous analysis configuration for this service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By clicking on the edit button aside from the `Policy List`, the polices of current service could be created or updated.
```

![Edit Continuous Profiling Policy](./edit-continuous-profiling-policy.png)

> The following configuration are support:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Multiple polices are supported. Every policy has following configurations.
```

   2. **Threshold**: Depending on the type of monitoring, you need to fill in the corresponding threshold to complete the verification work. 
   3. **Period**: Specifies the number of recent seconds of data you want to monitor. 
   4. **Count**: Determines the total number of seconds triggered within the recent period. 
   5. **URI Regex/List**: This is applicable to HTTP monitoring types, allowing URL filtering.

## Done

After clicking the save button, you can see the currently created monitoring rules, as shown in the figure below:

![Continuous Profiling Monitoring Processes](./continuous-profiling-monitoring.png)

The data can be divided into the following parts:

1. **Rule list**: On the left, you can see the rule list you have created.
2. **Monitoring Summary List**: Once a rule is selected, you can see which pods and processes would be monitored by this rule. 
It also summarizes how many profiling tasks have been triggered in the **last 48 hours** by the current pod or process, as well as the last trigger time. 
This list is also sorted in descending order by the number of triggers to facilitate your quick review.

> When you click on a specific process, you can see the data displayed as shown in the figure below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```suggestion
When you click on a specific process, a new dashboard would show to list metrics and triggered profiling results.
```
```

![Continuous Profiling Triggered Tasks](./continuous-profiling-tasks.png)

> The current figure contains the following data contents:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Figure xxx(?): Profiling Task Timeline
```

Please reformat the sentence after the figures, which should include a short description.

Author: updated, please re-check

> 1. **Task Timeline**: It shows when the current process has triggered performance analysis tasks in the **past 48 hours**. And when the mouse hovers over a task, it would also display detailed information: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Task Timeline**: It list all profiling tasks in the **past 48 hours**. And when the mouse hovers over a task, it would also display detailed information: 
```

   1. **Task start and end time**: It indicates when the current performance analysis task was triggered.

>    2. **Trigger reason**: It would display the reason why the current process was triggered and list out what the monitoring indicator was at the time it exceeded the threshold, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   2. **Trigger reason**: It would display the reason why the current process was profiled and list out the value of the metric exceeding the threshold when the profiling was triggered.
```

   so you can quickly understand the reason.
2. **Task Detail**: Similar to the CPU Profiling and Network Profiling introduced in previous articles, this would display the flame graph or process topology map of the current task, 

> depending on the target type you created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
depending on the profiling type.
```

> When you click on the **Metrics** tab, it would display the metric content related to the profiling of the current process, as shown in the figure below.
> Here, only the metrics you have configured for the current process would be collected, other metric information would not be collected. 
> Based on the collected metrics, you can get a comprehensive understanding of the monitoring status of the current process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Meanwhile, on the **Metrics** tab, metrics relative to profiling policies are collected to retrieve the historical trend, in order to provide a comprehensive explanation of the trigger point about the profiling.
```

![Continuous Profiling Metrics](./continuous-profiling-metrics.png)

# Conclusion

In this article, I have detailed how the continuous profiling feature in SkyWalking and eBPF works. 
In general, it involves deploying the eBPF Agent service on the same machine where the process to be monitored resides, 
and monitoring the target process with low resource consumption. When it meets the threshold conditions, 
it would initiate more complex CPU Profiling and Network Profiling tasks.

> In the future, we will offer even more features. Stay tuned!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the future, we will offer even more features. Stay tuned!

* Twitter, [ASFSkyWalking](https://twitter.com/AsfSkyWalking)
* Slack. Send `Request to join SkyWalking slack` mail to the mail list(`dev@skywalking.apache.org`), we will invite you in.
* Subscribe to our [medium list](https://medium.com/@AsfSkyWalking).
```

---
title: "Activating Automatical Performance Analysis -- Continuous Profiling"
date: 2023-06-25
author: "Han Liu"
description: "Introduce and demonstrate how SkyWalking implements eBPF-based process monitoring with few manual engagements. The profiling could be automatically activated driven by the preset conditions."
tags:
- eBPF
- Profiling
- Tracing
---

# Background

In previous articles, We have discussed how to use SkyWalking and eBPF for performance problem detection within [processes](/blog/2022-07-05-pinpoint-service-mesh-critical-performance-impact-by-using-ebpf) and [networks](blog/diagnose-service-mesh-network-performance-with-ebpf). 

> However, there are still two outstanding issues:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They are good methods to locate issues, but still there are some challenges:
```

> However, there are still two outstanding issues:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They are good methods to locate issues, but still there are some challenges:
```

1. **The timing of the task initiation**: It's always challenging to address the processes that require performance monitoring when problems occur.
Typically, manual engagement is required to identify processes and the types of performance analysis necessary, which cause extra time during the crash recovery.
The root cause locating and the time of crash recovery conflict with each other from time to time. 
In the real case, rebooting would be the first choice of recovery, meanwhile, it destroys the site of crashing.
2. **Resource consumption of tasks**: The difficulties to determine the profiling scope. Wider profiling causes more resources than it should. 
We need a method to manage resource consumption and understand which processes necessitate performance analysis.
3. **Engineer capabilities**: On-call is usually covered by the whole team, which have junior and senior engineers, even senior engineers have their understanding limitation of the complex distributed system, 
it is nearly impossible to understand the whole system by a single one person.

The **Continuous Profiling** is a new created mechanism to resolve the above issues.

> # Mechanism
> 
> As profiling tasks consume a significant amount of system resources, can we find alternative ways to monitor processes that use fewer system resources? The answer is yes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Automate Profiling

As profiling is resource costing and high experience required, how about introducing a method to narrow the scope and automate the profiling driven by polices creates by senior SRE engineer?
```

> Currently, SkyWalking supports establishing policy rules for specific services to be monitored by the eBPF Agent in a low-energy manner, and run profiling when necessary automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So, in 9.5.0, SkyWalking first introduced preset policy rules for specific services to be monitored by the eBPF Agent in a low-energy manner, and run profiling when necessary automatically.
```
